Doc edits to batching, codegen, and some reorg (#3584)
apollographql/apollo-android: docs/source/advanced/http-engine.mdx

---
title: Using a custom HTTP library

> sidebar_title: Custom HTTP libraries

Reviewer: I'd keep the "HTTP client" terminology as it's been widely popularized by "OkHttpClient"  and this feels more specific than "library"

}
```

This example uses an asynchronous `wrappedClient` that runs the network request in a separate thread. Note that because `HttpEngine.execute` itself is called from a background thread, you can safely block in `execute()`.

## Using your `HttpEngine`

> After you create your `HttpEngine` implementation, you can register it with your [`ApolloClient`](https://apollographql.github.io/apollo-android/kdoc/apollo-runtime/com.apollographql.apollo3/-apollo-client/index.html) instance using [`HttpNetworkTransport`](https://apollographql.github.io/apollo-android/kdoc/apollo-runtime/com.apollographql.apollo3.network.http/-http-network-transport/index.html):

Reviewer: Not directly  related to these edits but we added helper methods to not have to go through `NetworkTransport`:

```suggestion
After you create your `HttpEngine` implementation, you can register it with your [`ApolloClient`](https://apollographql.github.io/apollo-android/kdoc/apollo-runtime/com.apollographql.apollo3/-apollo-client/index.html) instance using [`ApolloClient.Builder.httpEngine`](https://apollographql.github.io/apollo-android/kdoc/apollo-runtime/com.apollographql.apollo3/-apollo-client/-builder/http-engine.html):
```

```kotlin
// Use your HttpEngine
val client = ApolloClient.Builder()

>   .networkTransport(
>     HttpNetworkTransport(
>       serverUrl = "https://com.example/graphql",
>       engine = MyHttpEngine(wrappedClient)
>     )

Reviewer: Like above, use `httpEngine` directly:

```suggestion
  .serverUrl(serverUrl = "https://com.example/graphql")
  .httpEngine(httpEngine = MyHttpEngine(wrappedClient))
```

  )
  .build()
```

With this configuration, Apollo Android sends all of its GraphQL operation requests with `MyHttpEngine`.

## Other HTTP customizations

Besides implementing `HttpEngine`, Apollo Android also supports other methods for customizing HTTP behavior:

* [No runtime](no-runtime): You can opt out of the Apollo Android runtime completely and only use generated models and parsers. Use this option if you don't need any of the runtime features (caching, batching, automatic persisted queries, etc.).

> * [HTTP interceptors](interceptors-http): If you want to add HTTP headers and/or logging to your requests, [HTTP interceptors](interceptors-http) enable you to do this with minimal code.

Reviewer: That might belong to an `Introduction` or `Overview` page, [like for caching](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/android/v3/caching/introduction/)?

Author: Agreed! I'll investigate that as a next step, but will leave it here for this PR to make sure the content isn't lost.
